---
layout: post
title: GSoC 2018 - Week 8 - Improving solving of logarithmic equations
comments: true
tags: [ gsoc, Sympy]
---

Before the start of the week Amit and I discussed on a few points on:

**Note**: `is_logarithmic()` is an identifier helper for `_transolve` to determine whether the expression is logarithmic or not.
      and `_solve_log()` is a solving helper that returns the equation in a tractable form for `solveset` to better handle.

 - What should `is_logarithmic()` return?

While designing the method at first it returned a `logcombined` equation if found to be logarithmic, but we agreed upon having consistency among all the identifying helpers to return either `True` or `False`.
	 

 - How `_is_logarithmic()` should work?

Next question was how it should work. We can implement it in two ways either to make the `logcombined` equation, if the expression reduces, it is obviously a logarithmic equation otherwise not. We also need to check whether the equation reduced has the variable to be solved in its `free_symbols`
But `logcombine` possessed a problem that it unknowingly manipulates the equation, like `log(x) - log(2*x)` would reduce to `log(1/2)` for which the routine would return `False` as there are no symbol involved. So a more better way needs to be implemented.

 - How `_solve_log()` will handle removing unwanted solutions?

Simply reducing the logarithmic equation to a tractable form for `solveset` to handle would cause spurious solutions in the result. Therefore it becomes necessary to remove them. Take for example: `solveset` gives the result of `log(x - 3) + log(x + 3)` as `{-sqrt(10), sqrt(10)}`, but `-sqrt(10)` is not the solution in `Real` domain. Therefore one way to remove it was using `checksol`. Amit suggested on to have a look over the singularities and try incorporating the check in `_solveset`.

Things that I did during the week:

- improved `is_logarithmic()`

Removed the `logcombine` way of checking the equation. As of now the `_is_logarithm` checks for every term to be logarithmic in terms of the variable to be solved, if so it returns `True` otherwise `False`

- improved the `_solve_log()`

As per the current documentation of `_transolve` this routine is improved to return a modified form of the equation that `solveset` could better handle. Checking of the spurious solutions will take place in `solveset` itself.

- Way to remove spurious solutions

To handle this scenario I have added a [check](https://github.com/sympy/sympy/pull/14792/files#diff-eec0422923e8f100745c015cd8fdd6cfR985) in `_solveset` specifically for logarithmic equations to remove spurious solutions.
The idea is based on the fact that natural log in undefined for negative and zero value, therefore this method gets each term of the expression, substitutes each solution to every term one by one and if for any term the value isn't real that solution will not be included.

Why `checksol()` is not the appropriate way?

At first I thought of using the `checksol()`, but it possessed a problem. `checksol` unintensionally allows wrong solution to creep in. Take for example `log(3*x) - log(-x + 1) - log(4*x + 1)`, `solveset` would give `-1/2 and 1/2` as the solutions but the former isn't a solution in real domain. Using `checksol` would not remove this as `I*pi` gets cancelled out during evaluating the expression therefore it returns `True`, which is not correct.

- Addressing comments

Apart from this few changes have been done in the `_transolve` [PR](https://github.com/sympy/sympy/pull/14736):
	
   - I have added a method that would return all the terms present in the expression: [make_expr_args()](https://github.com/sympy/sympy/pull/14736/files#diff-eec0422923e8f100745c015cd8fdd6cfR988)

   - Made the expresssion remain unevaluated when doing [lhs - rhs](https://github.com/sympy/sympy/pull/14736/files#diff-eec0422923e8f100745c015cd8fdd6cfR1299) within `_transolve`.

Read this [blog](http://localhost:4000/gsoc-week-5) for better understanding of logarithmic solving.
